---
layout: mathpost
title: Cashbtc, A fast IRL bitcoin exchange protocol.
---

As bitcoin adoption is growing, and the debate about scaling the blockchain
stalling, it becomes less and less practical to exchange bitcoin for cash 
in a peer to peer fashion. Indeed, if you want to sell bitcoins and fix
a meeting with someone, you will have to stay until the transaction
gets confirmed by the network, and this can take a long time.

This is very unfortunate, as buying bitcoin peer to peer stays in
my opinion the most anonymous way to acquire bitcoins. This is why
I propose Cashbtc, a protocol to allow two individuals to exchange
bitcoins for cash, without having to wait for a network confirmation
on the meeting point.

## Cashbtc

In this description of the protocol, Alice wants to sell 1 bitcoin
to Bob. The refund address of Alice is $$ad_A$$ and the destination address
of Bob is $$ad_B$$. Before the transaction, Alice computes a new
key pair $$(pub_A, pr_A)$$, and Bob computes a new key pair $$(pub_B, pr_B)$$.

|-------+----+-----|
| Alice |    | Bob |
|:-----:|:--:|:---:|
| Computes $$TX_0: 1BTC \rightarrow (2of2 \{pub_A, pub_B\}$$ | | |
| $$ \lor (locktime \land sign_A))$$ | | |
| Announces $$TX_0$$ | | |
| | **Network confirms** $$TX_0$$ | |
| Goes to the meeting | | Goes to the meeting|
| Reveals $$pr_A$$ | $$\Longleftrightarrow$$  | Pays in cash |
| | | Computes $$TX_1: (2of2 \{pub_A, pub_B\}) \rightarrow ad_B$$ |
| | | Announce $$TX_1$$ |
| | **Bob defaults** | |
| Computes $$TX_2: (locktime \land sign_A) \rightarrow ad_A$$ | | | 
| Announcs $$TX_2$$ | | |

If the protocol is clear enough, you should have noticed that Bob
doesn't have to wait for $$TX_1$$ to confirm, as Alice doesn't have
$$pr_B$$, and the refund transaction is still supposedly locked.
Thus the exchange can go really fast, Alice would have to display
$$pr_A$$ with a QR code, and Bob would have to scan it, and check
its validity. Once Bob is sure that $$pr_A$$ is valid, he can leave
the meeting in peace !

This protocol is not tested, I am currently working on an implementation
on the Bitcoin testnet network. Comments/suggestions are greatly appreciated.

